## CMYK
CMYK colorspace stands for "Cyan, Magenta, Yellow and Black(K)" colorspace. This type of colorspace is considered a "substractive" color model, due to colors being displayed via absorbtion (substraction) of the colors of the light. Each main color absorbs a different color of light: cyan absorbig red, magenta absorbing green, and yellow absorbing blue.[^westland23cmyk] It is for this reason that mixing two base colors of the CMYK system will result in one of the primary colors of the RGB colorspace. By removing two of the three colors of the light, you only have one pure color left. For example, by mixing yellow and magenta, we remove both green and blue, leaving us with red. CYMK is mostly used in printing.
In terms of color mixing, the CYMK, due to it's substractive nature, will mix both wavelenghts and keep the lowest points of the clash of the two waves. In comparison, RGB, with its additive mixing, will keep the high points of the waves. [^lee08theevolution]
The use of differnet color spaces will differ depending on how you intend to use the image. for example, a design that is meant to only ever be viewed on screens would preferably be realized in RGB as you will have access to more colors on the monitor. If you intend on printing the design, it is better to use the CMYK model, since not all RGB colors can be produced accurately with printers. It is usually the case for very vivid colors that are produced by a color mix, as achieving vivid colors through mixing is very complex. The type of file to use may also vary on the color space you are using, .pdf and .ai files being prefered for CMYK, and more traditional digital image files such as .jpg or .png are prefered for the RGB colorspace.[^ellis25rgb]


[^westland23cmyk]: Westland, Stephen, and Vien Cheung. 2023. “CMYK Systems.” ResearchGate. In Handbook of Visual Display Technology, 1–7.
[^lee08theevolution]: Lee, Barry B. 2008. “The Evolution of Concepts of Color Vision.” PubMed, July. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21593994.
[^ellis25rgb]: Ellis, Matt, and Peter Vukovic. 2025. “RGB Vs CMYK: What’s the Difference?” Vistaprint Ideas and Advice US (blog). March 5, 2025. Accessed March 9, 2025. https://www.vistaprint.com/hub/correct-file-formats-rgb-and-cmyk?srsltid=AfmBOorEwPM2klKkK5VTpiRTvh5uTgk1bJWGwNT-Lm0Vs_t2zmrb1PGP.
